repair, first run against the accumulated backlog.
12 August 2026, Neon.

Background. A PumpSwap event whose pool is not yet known cannot be oriented,
because nothing in the instruction says which side of the pool holds the token
and which holds wrapped SOL. The processor refuses to guess. It writes the raw
event and writes no trade. Seconds later the RPC answers, the pool is cached,
and every later trade in that pool resolves normally. The earlier ones stay
uninterpreted.

Those events were never lost. They were never interpreted, on purpose. The
pools table now holds the answer and events.payload still holds the raw wire
data, so the interpretation that was impossible then is possible now. That is
what repair does. It is local only: no RPC, no network, whatever the pools
table knows at the moment it runs.

Starting point, events with no matching trade row:

  pumpswap  SellEvent   4541
  pumpswap  BuyEvent    3726
  pumpfun   TradeEvent    48
                        ----
                        8315

First run:

  $ cargo run -- repair
  repair: 2642 pools known
  repair: 8267 events with no trade row
  repair: 7771 trades written
  repair: 31 skipped, pool still not in the pools table
  repair: 465 skipped, neither side of the pool is wrapped SOL
  repair: 0 skipped, amount does not fit in i64
  repair: 0 skipped, payload could not be read

7771 + 31 + 465 = 8267. Nothing unaccounted for.

Second run, immediately after:

  $ cargo run -- repair
  repair: 2642 pools known
  repair: 496 events with no trade row
  repair: 0 trades written
  repair: 31 skipped, pool still not in the pools table
  repair: 465 skipped, neither side of the pool is wrapped SOL

496 is exactly 31 + 465. Nothing was written the second time. Rows are keyed on
(signature, absolute_path, event_ordinal) and inserted with ON CONFLICT DO
NOTHING, so a repeat run is a no-op rather than a duplicate. The reported count
is rows actually inserted, not rows attempted, which is why the second run is
honest about having done nothing.

Remaining afterwards:

  SELECT count(*) FROM events e
  LEFT JOIN trades t
    ON  t.signature     = e.signature
    AND t.absolute_path = e.absolute_path
    AND t.event_ordinal = e.event_ordinal
  WHERE t.signature IS NULL;

   count
  -------
     544

544 is 496 plus the 48 pump.fun rows, which repair does not touch.

Second pass, 13 August, after amounts moved to NUMERIC.

The 48 pump.fun events above were never a pool problem. sol_amount and
token_amount were BIGINT, which is i64, while Solana amounts are u64. When
i64::try_from failed the processor wrote the event and dropped the trade with
no counter and no log. The columns are now NUMERIC(20,0), which is exactly the
u64 domain, and the Rust side is rust_decimal::Decimal, so the conversion
cannot fail.

repair also only ever looked at pumpswap. load_unrepaired filtered on
program = 'pumpswap', so those 48 rows were not examined even once. build now
dispatches on program: pump.fun is a bonding curve, so the mint and the
direction are in the event itself and there is no pool to resolve.

  $ sqlx migrate run
  $ cargo run -- repair
  repair: 2642 pools known
  repair: 544 events with no trade row
  repair: 48 trades written
  repair: 31 skipped, pool still not in the pools table
  repair: 465 skipped, neither side of the pool is wrapped SOL
  repair: 0 skipped, payload could not be read

544 = 48 + 31 + 465. The ten tests pass unchanged through the type change.

What is left, and why.

465 events, across 150 distinct pools: neither side of the pool is wrapped SOL.
These are token to token pools. The trades table has a NOT NULL sol_amount
column and there is no honest value to put in it for a swap with no SOL leg.
This is not a bug in repair, it is a limit of the data model, and 465 events
across 150 pools is enough to say it is a normal case rather than an oddity.
Recording these needs quote_mint and quote_amount columns and a decision about
what a trade means when no SOL is involved.

31 events: the pool has never been resolved at all. These would need an RPC
lookup. repair is deliberately local so that it stays fast and repeatable, so
these are reported rather than fetched.

Nothing else remains. Every stored event now either has a trade row or falls
into one of those two categories, both of which are stated limits rather than
silent failures.

One thing the pump.fun payload showed while writing the parser. The event
carries quote_mint and quote_amount alongside sol_amount, and in the sample
quote_mint is the all zero pubkey with quote_amount equal to sol_amount. The
quote asset happens to be SOL. If a pump.fun trade is ever quoted in something
else, the sol_amount column would label it wrong and nothing would object. That
is the same schema question as the 465 PumpSwap events above, arrived at from
the other side.
